 create an App Service Web App
On the homepage, click "Create a resource"
Search for "Web App"
Click "Create"
Select your subscription
Select your resource group "resource-group-west"
Enter a name for your web app—This needs to be a unique name and is unique to Azure as a whole and not just your Azure account. I used "hello-world1234" as my unique name.
For Publish, select "Code"
For the "Runtime Stack", select "Python 3.7" or greater.
For the "Operating System" select "Linux"
Select a region for your app service
Create a new App Service Plan. You can keep the default name Azure gives you or you can create your own name.
For SKU and size, select "F1" (Free).
Click "Review + Create"
Click "Create"


To deploy an App Service from a GitHub repository, I did the following:

Go to Deployment Center
Choose GitHub
Choose org and repo
Go through the prompts; deployment takes a few minutes
Go to URL of web app and should see the app deployed

Create an App Service Web App
Create an App Service Web App with the following configuration:

Resource-Group: resource-group-west
Web App Name: unique name
Publish: Code
Runtime stack: Python 3.7
Operating System: Linux
Region: West US or the closest region to you
App Service Plan: Default name or Create new with a name of your choice
SKU and size: F1 (Free)
Note: Azure free account only allows one Linux App Service of size F1. You will need to delete the App Service along with the App Service Plan after this exercise since we will create other Linux App Services throughout this course.

Deploy the App Service Web App
It’s finally time to deploy some code to Azure! Download the web app code provided here.

Create a new repo and push the web app code to the repo
On Azure portal in the Deployment Center, deploy the web app from GitHub
Navigate to the deployed URL






Steps to Create and Deploy an App Service Web App from a Directory using Azure CLI:

Sign in to Azure az login
cd to web directory
Run the following command:

az webapp up \
 --resource-group resource-group-west \
 --name hello-world1234 \
 --sku F1 \
 --verbose
If you visit the URL, you should see your site deployed.

If you want to update your app, make changes to your code and then run (Note: this may not update new requirements you may have added):

az webapp up \
 --name hello-world1234 \
 --verbose
Alternatively, you can create the initial web app from the Portal as shown in the below screenshot (and then deploy code to it separately, as shown in the earlier video).

An example of creating the App Service in the Portal. A subscription is selected with the same resource group as before. The app service is named `linux-app-west` (or whatever you would like), with "Publish" set to "Code" on Python 3.7, Linux, and the West US region. A new app service plan is created, on the Free F1 tier.
An example of creating the App Service in the Portal

Cleanup
If we no longer need a resource, we can delete them through the portal. The quickest way to do this from the CLI is to delete the resource group. This will delete all resources in that group

az group delete -n resource-group-west

Alternatively, if you want to just delete the App Service and App Service plan individually, you can do so with the following commands:

Delete an App Service

az webapp delete \
    --name hello-world1234 \
    --resource-group resource-group-west
Delete an App Service plan

az appservice plan delete \
    --name [App Service Plan Name] \
    --resource-group resource-group-west
    
    
    
    
    
    QUIZ QUESTION
You've built a web app, and deployed it with az webapp up, but seem to be getting an ImportError when actually trying to access the application. What change do you need to make to the app for it to work?

 you just missed including the library in a requirements.txt file for the app, or including the appropriate version of that library containing a function you need. Note that you'll want to update the app, or delete it and re-run az webapp up, as that command otherwise might not replace the file and install the new dependencies.
