Amazon ec2:getting started

aws build datacenters
aws secureed datatcenter
aws purchased server
aws installed server
servers are already on online ready to use
(it has massive amount, you can use how much you required,you only pay for running servers)
EC2 runs on top of physical host machines managed by AWS using virtualization technology. When you spin up an EC2 instance, you aren't necessarily taking an entire host to yourself. Instead, you are sharing the host with multiple other instances, otherwise known as virtual machines. And a hypervisor running on the host machine is responsible for sharing the underlying physical resources between the virtual machines. This idea of sharing underlying hardware is called multitenancy. The hypervisor is responsible for coordinating this multitenancy and it is managed by AWS. The hypervisor is responsible for isolating the virtual machines from each other as they share resources from the host. This means EC2 instances are secure. Even though they may be sharing resources, one EC2 instance is not aware of any other EC2 instances also on that host. They are secure and separate from each other.
EC2 gives you a great deal of flexibility and control. Not only can you spin up new servers or take them offline at will, but you also have the flexibility and control over the configuration of those instances. 
When you provision an EC2 instance, you can choose the operating system based on either Windows or Linux. You can provision thousands of EC2 instances on demand. With a blend of operating systems and configurations to power your business' different applications. 



Beyond the OS, you also configure what software you want running on the instance. Whether it's your own internal business applications, simple web apps, or complex web apps, databases or third party software like enterprise software packages, you have complete control over what happens on that instance. EC2 instances are also resizable. You might start with a small instance, realize the application you are running is starting to max out that server, and then you can give that instance more memory and more CPU. Which is what we call vertically scaling an instance. 



In essence, you can make instances bigger or smaller whenever you need to. You also control the networking aspect of EC2. So what type of requests make it to your server and if they are publicly or privately accessible is something you decide. 



We will touch more on this later in the course in detail. Virtual machines are not a new thing. But the ease of provisioning EC2 instances allows for programmers and businesses to innovate more quickly. AWS has just made it much, much easier and more cost effective for you to acquire servers through this Compute as a Service model. There's a lot more to learn about EC2. We talked about virtualization and the types of software you can run on an EC2 instance. But there is more you can configure with EC2 as well.

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances. 

Imagine you are responsible for the architecture of your company's resources and need to support new websites. With traditional on-premises resources, you have to do the following:

Spend money upfront to purchase hardware.
Wait for the servers to be delivered to you.
Install the servers in your physical data center.
Make all the necessary configurations.
By comparison, with an Amazon EC2 instance you can use a virtual server to run applications in the AWS Cloud.

You can provision and launch an Amazon EC2 instance within minutes.
You can stop using it when you have finished running a workload.
You pay only for the compute time you use when an instance is running, not when it is stopped or terminated.
You can save costs by paying only for server capacity that you need or want.
